ci: use charmcraft test for example charm (#2440)
canonical/operator: docs/howto/set-up-continuous-integration-for-a-charm.md

If your charm is a machine charm, use `-p machine` instead.

The "Upload logs" step assumes that your integration tests use Jubilant together with `pytest-jubilant`. See [How to write integration tests for a charm](#write-integration-tests-for-a-charm-view-juju-logs).

This single job runs every integration test module sequentially. As your suite grows, split tests across modules and run each module in its own CI job — see {ref}`write-integration-tests-for-a-charm-split-across-modules`.

(set-up-ci-charmcraft-test)=
## Run integration tests in parallel with `charmcraft test`

> If you initialised your charm with `charmcraft init --profile test-machine` or `--profile test-kubernetes` (both currently experimental), your charm includes a `spread.yaml` and one `spread/integration/<module>/task.yaml` per test module. You can use `charmcraft test` in CI to run each module as its own matrix job, so total wall-clock time is bounded by the slowest module rather than the sum of all modules. Adding a new `test_*.py` module — along with its `task.yaml` — automatically adds a new CI job.

Reviewer: This is quite dense. How about expanding it (visually) and with a bit more context on spread:

```suggestion
If you initialised your charm with `charmcraft init --profile test-machine` or `--profile test-kubernetes` (both currently experimental), your charm includes extra testing machinery:

- A [spread](https://github.com/canonical/spread) configuration file called `spread.yaml`.
- One file `spread/integration/<module>/task.yaml` per test module.

You can use `charmcraft test` in CI to run each module as its own matrix job, so total wall-clock time is bounded by the slowest module rather than the sum of all modules. Adding a new `test_*.py` module — along with its `task.yaml` — automatically adds a new CI job.
```

Reviewer: I'd also consider moving the sentence about automatically adding CI jobs. I'll make a separate suggestion about that.

A minimal workflow looks like:

```yaml
  integration:
    name: Integration / ${{ matrix.task }}
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    needs:
      - unit
    strategy:
      fail-fast: false
      matrix:
        task:
          - test_charm
          # Add one entry per spread/integration/<module>/task.yaml.
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v6
        with:
          persist-credentials: false
      - name: Set up LXD
        uses: canonical/setup-lxd@8c6a87bfb56aa48f3fb9b830baa18562d8bfd4ee  # v1
        with:
          channel: 5.21/stable
      - name: Install charmcraft
        run: sudo snap install charmcraft --classic
      - name: Run spread test
        # On GitHub Actions (CI=true) charmcraft test runs spread against the
        # runner itself, instead of launching a nested LXD VM.
        run: charmcraft test "craft:ubuntu-24.04:spread/integration/${{ matrix.task }}"
```

> For a complete workflow that discovers modules dynamically (no hard-coded matrix), see the Ops repository's [example-charm-charmcraft-test.yaml](https://github.com/canonical/operator/blob/main/.github/workflows/example-charm-charmcraft-test.yaml). For the matching charm-side files, see the [httpbin-demo](https://github.com/canonical/operator/tree/main/examples/httpbin-demo) example charm.

Reviewer: Since the example in the doc doesn't show how to discover modules, I'd move the earlier sentence here. Something like this:

```suggestion
It's also possible to discover modules dynamically (no hard-coded matrix), so that when you add a `test_*.py` module and corresponding `task.yaml` file, you automatically get a new CI job.

For an example, see the Ops repository's [example-charm-charmcraft-test.yaml workflow](https://github.com/canonical/operator/blob/main/.github/workflows/example-charm-charmcraft-test.yaml). This workflow runs integration tests for the [httpbin-demo](https://github.com/canonical/operator/tree/main/examples/httpbin-demo) example charm.
```

If your charm is a machine charm, use `-p machine` instead.

The "Upload logs" step assumes that your integration tests use Jubilant together with `pytest-jubilant`. See [How to write integration tests for a charm](#write-integration-tests-for-a-charm-view-juju-logs).

This single job runs every integration test module sequentially. As your suite grows, split tests across modules and run each module in its own CI job — see {ref}`write-integration-tests-for-a-charm-split-across-modules`.

(set-up-ci-charmcraft-test)=
## Run integration tests in parallel with `charmcraft test`

If you initialised your charm with `charmcraft init --profile test-machine` or `--profile test-kubernetes` (both currently experimental), your charm includes extra testing machinery:

- A [spread](https://github.com/canonical/spread) configuration file called `spread.yaml`.
- One file `spread/integration/<module>/task.yaml` per test module.

> You can use `charmcraft test` in CI to run each module as its own matrix job, so total wall-clock time is bounded by the slowest module rather than the sum of all modules. Adding a new `test_*.py` module — along with its `task.yaml` — automatically adds a new CI job.

Reviewer 2: Nit: Would it be clearer to say that adding a new `task.yaml` file automatically adds a new CI job? And then that we advise a module based strategy for parallelizing integration tests.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use `charmcraft test` in CI to run each module as its own matrix job, so total wall-clock time is bounded by the slowest module rather than the sum of all modules. Adding a new `task.yaml`, which should run a single new `test_*.py` module, automatically adds a new CI job.
```
